This is a document that describes my own person stylistic preferences. Think of
it as a personal styleguide.

## How I write docs

I sort of have three audiences in mind when writing READMEs, wiki docs, or just
documentation in general:

- **Users:** Users just want to use the thing. They like examples, docs, etc.
  The "Installation" and "Usage" sections of a readme are for them. If there's a
  GitHub Pages site, then it's usually designed for users.

- **Tinkerers:** Tinkerers are people who want to see how the thing works, and
  probably want to build it themselves. But they don't _necessarily_ want to
  contribute changes back. They like outline documents, build instructions, code
  comments, etc. The "Development" section of the readme and a developer GitHub
  wiki are what I usually write with them in mind.

- **Contributors:** These are people who want to suggest ideas, write code, or
  help the project. They like conventions, walkthroughs, pointers to ask
  questions, styleguides, encouraging language, etc. This is who I usually write
  CONTRIBUTING.md with in mind. This group is a subset of the Tinkerers group,
  so they also use the developer wiki/"Development" section of the readme.

## Formatters

I like to use standard formatters. This helps me keep this styleguide as short
as possible and avoid a lot of the minutia. Here's a list of some of the
formatters that I use and where I like to use them:

- **[Prettier]:** Used for everything web-related. JSON, JS, TS, HTML, CSS, and
  even Markdown. The only setting I twiddle with is `proseWrap: "always"` for
  Mardown.
- **[Clang-Format]:** I use this for anything C++ & C related. I don't override
  any of the defaults, which means I tend to get LLVM-styled C++ code.
  LLVM-styled code also happens to be the most popular on GitHub.
- **[cmake-format]:** For CMake code. No settings that I configure.
- **[shfmt]:** Makes Bash code prettier. Also doesn't have any settings I
  change.

As you may have noticed, I've learned to like the defaults of the tools I use.
It often means greater compatability and popularity.

## Using GitHub tools

Certain tools that GitHub offers seem to fit into certain "ideal usecases" in my
brain. 🧠 Here's a rundown of how I like to use the various GitHub tools:

- Use Discussions for discussing ideas, polls, or unrelated topics.
- Use Issues as a todo list. Discuss things related to solving the todo.
- Use PRs for documenting the _progress_ of a thing. Often related to Issues.

## Markdown

### Redundant headings

Wherever possible, I like to omit the `<h1>` title of a Markdown document and
rely on the title of either the file or the generated `<title>` or `<h1>` (like
in a GitHub wiki) to set the title. This avoids repeating the same information
twice. This is particularily useful advice for GitHub wiki pages where they get
an extra `<h1>` generated by GitHub based on the file name.

### Link style

When writing prose, I like to use the `[term]` external link definition pattern.
This approach offers the advantages of:

1. Not needing to define a link's href right away.
2. Not needing to think of a short ID like `[term][term-id]` since you are using
   `[term]` as its own ID.

But, it does offer one sole disadvantage (also shared with `[term][term-id]`):
Resolving `[term]` to an href takes longer than `[term](href)`

This particular style fits with the way I write Markdown. I write in prose for a
short sprint, and then come back with GitHub Copilot at the bottom of the file
to generate the `[term]: https://` prefixes that I need. Then, I just add in the
URLs and 💥 POW! I'm done!

This also lessens the `problem][with-long-tokens]` because that 👈 is
interpreted as one single "word" and will wrap as such:

```md
I hope that you have enjoyed this! Our [HTML
Specification-v2.0][whatwg-html-v2.0] is not yet ready for the prime time, so
try to be patient with us as we make sure that it meets all the necessary
```

🗣️ If you're interested in more debate about favorite link styles, check out
[spenserblack/spenserblack#42].

## JavaScript & TypeScript

### Exports at the bottom

I like to put my exports at the bottom in a big group. TODO: Continue this

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
[prettier]: https://prettier.io/
[clang-format]: https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ClangFormat.html
[cmake-format]: https://github.com/cheshirekow/cmake_format#readme
[shfmt]: https://github.com/mvdan/sh#shfmt
[spenserblack/spenserblack#42]: https://github.com/spenserblack/spenserblack/discussions/42
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->
